doc: doc release changes for NCS BM v2.0.0 (#779)
nrfconnect/sdk-nrf-bm: doc/nrf-bm/release_notes/release_notes_2.0.0.rst

.. _nrf_bm_release_notes_200:

Changelog for |BMlong| v2.0.0
##############################

This changelog reflects the most relevant changes from the latest official release.

Changelog
*********

The following sections provide detailed lists of changes by component.

SDK installation
================

* Updated the steps to install prerequisites in the :ref:`install_nrf_bm` page.
  Installation of the recommended version of SEGGER J-Link is now handled by `nRF Connect for Desktop`_.

S115 SoftDevice
===============

* Updated the SoftDevice to v10.0.0.
  See the :ref:`SoftDevice release notes <softdevice_docs>` for details.

S145 SoftDevice
===============

* Updated the SoftDevice to v10.0.0.
  See the :ref:`SoftDevice release notes <softdevice_docs>` for details.

SoftDevice Handler
==================

* Added:

   * The :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF_SDH_LOG_SD_INFO` Kconfig option to log SoftDevice information like version and firmware ID when enabling the SoftDevice.

>    * The :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF_SDH_BLE_LOG_SD_RAM_USAGE` Kconfig option to log SoftDevice RAM usage and the application RAM minimum address when enabling Bluetooth LE in the SoftDevice.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   * The :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF_SDH_BLE_LOG_SD_RAM_USAGE` Kconfig option to log SoftDevice RAM usage and the application RAM minimum address when enabling Bluetooth® LE in the SoftDevice.
```

   * The :c:func:`nrf_sdh_ble_sd_ram_usage_get` function for returning the number of bytes used or required for SoftDevice RAM.

* Updated:

   * The :c:macro:`NRF_SDH_STATE_EVT_OBSERVER` and :c:macro:`NRF_SDH_STACK_EVT_OBSERVER` macros to not declare the handler prototype.
   * The log error message when there is insufficient RAM for the SoftDevice when enabling Bluetooth LE in the SoftDevice.

Boards
======

* Added support for the following boards:
  See :ref:`bm_software_maturity` for details.

   * PCA10184 (`nRF54LM20 DK`_)
   * PCA10188 (`nRF54LV10 DK`_)
   * PCA10214 (`nRF54LS05 DK`_)

* Updated:

   * The SRAM sizes for the ``bm_nrf54l15dk`` board target to not overlap with VPR context.
   * The board memory layout for all boards to align with the new SoftDevice.

>    * The LPUARTE pins in ``board-config.h`` for ``bm_nrf54l15dk`` to avoid conflicts for LEDs, buttons and other peripherals where possible.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   * The LPUARTE pins in the :file:`board-config.h` file for for ``bm_nrf54l15dk`` to avoid conflicts for LEDs, buttons, and other peripherals where possible.
```

   * The board RAM memory layout for all boards to use a single node for SoftDevice RAM, combining the previously separate static and dynamic nodes.

* Disabled all Peripheral Resource Sharing (PRS) boxes for the ``bm_nrf54l15dk`` board variants.

Build system
============

* Updated the Kconfig dependencies, including those for drivers, libraries, and Bluetooth LE services.

DFU
===

* Added:

>    * Experimental support for nRF54LV10A, nRF54LM20A, and nRF54LS05B SoCs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   * Experimental support for the nRF54LV10A, nRF54LM20A, and nRF54LS05B SoCs.
```

>    * Experimental support for nRF54LV10A, nRF54LM20A, and nRF54LS05B SoCs.

Reviewer 2: From maturity page, only LS05 is now experimental, the others are supported, right?

Author: Let's clarify maturity levels tomorrow.

   * The :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BM_MCUMGR_GRP_IMG_BUFFER_SZ` Kconfig option to set the size of the data buffer.
   * The :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BM_MCUMGR_GRP_IMG_NVM_WRITE_BLOCKS_MAX` Kconfig option to set the maximum number of non-volatile memory wear units written to NVM at once.

* Updated:

   * Image upload NVM writes to be handled in synchronization with SD.

>    * Improved download speed performance over Bluetooth LE.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   * By improving the download speed performance over Bluetooth LE.
```

Author: I went for "The download speed performance over Bluetooth LE by improving it."

   * The support for setting up the DFU Device Bluetooth name remotely.
     This new implementation consumes less RAM and RRAM than the previous one.

>      New solution is enabled by the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BM_FLAT_SETTINGS_BLUETOOTH_NAME` Kconfig option.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     The new solution is enabled by the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BM_FLAT_SETTINGS_BLUETOOTH_NAME` Kconfig option.
```

     It employs the newly added inter-application RAM clipboard storage.

>    * Support for nRF54L15, nRF54L10, and nRF54L05 SoCs is no longer experimental and is now fully supported.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   * The maturity status of the nRF54L15, nRF54L10, and nRF54L05 SoCs from Experimental to Supported.
```

Author: * The maturity status of DFU for the nRF54L15, nRF54L10, and nRF54L05 SoCs from Experimental to Supported.

   * Firmware loader to not clear the retained DFU Device Bluetooth name after loading it from retained memory.
     This allows the advertising name to persist after updating SoftDevice and/or firmware loader, or if the application image validation fails and the device reboots into firmware loader.

* Removed:

>    * The :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NCS_BM_SETTINGS_BLUETOOTH_NAME` Kconfig option and zephyr-rtos settings subsystem handlers for Setting up DFU Device Bluetooth name remotely.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   * The ``CONFIG_NCS_BM_SETTINGS_BLUETOOTH_NAME`` Kconfig option and zephyr-rtos settings subsystem handlers for setting up the DFU Device Bluetooth name remotely.
```

   * Added:

     * The capability to compile more than one backend.
       An instance can be configured to use a specific backend by using the :c:member:`bm_storage_config.api` field.
     * The :c:member:`bm_storage_info.wear_unit` field to represent the NVM wear granularity.
     * The :c:func:`bm_storage_nvm_info_get` function to retrieve NVM information, such as the size of the program unit.
     * The :c:member:`bm_storage_config.is_wear_aligned` configuration flag to enforce wear unit alignment on operations.
     * The :c:member:`bm_storage_config.is_write_padded` configuration flag to automatically pad write operations to the alignment unit.
     * The :c:func:`bm_storage_evt_dispatch` function for event delivery.

   * Updated:

     * The :c:func:`bm_storage_is_busy` function to return ``false`` instead of ``true`` when called with a ``NULL`` pointer or an uninitialized instance.
     * The :c:func:`bm_storage_init` function to return an error when the instance is already initialized.
     * The SoftDevice, RRAM, and native_sim backends to support deinitialization.
     * The SoftDevice, RRAM, and native_sim backends to support the erase operation.

>      * The :c:member:`bm_storage_info.erase_value` field from a ``uint32_t`` to a ``uint8_t``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     * The :c:member:`bm_storage_info.erase_value` field from ``uint32_t`` to ``uint8_t``.
```

     * The SoftDevice backend to support chunking of write operations.

>      * The ``no_explicit_erase`` field in :c:struct:`bm_storage_info` has been renamed to ``is_erase_before_write`` to explicitly convey that the memory must be erased before it can be written to.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     * By renaming the ``no_explicit_erase`` field in the :c:struct:`bm_storage_info` structure to ``is_erase_before_write`` to explicitly convey that the memory must be erased before it can be written to.
```

     * The SoftDevice backend's :c:member:`bm_storage_info.program_unit` from 16 to 4 bytes, reflecting the true minimum programmable unit.

>      * The ``start_addr`` and ``end_addr`` fields in :c:struct:`bm_storage_config` and :c:struct:`bm_storage` have been replaced by ``addr`` and ``size``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     * By replacing the ``start_addr`` and ``end_addr`` fields in the :c:struct:`bm_storage_config` and :c:struct:`bm_storage` structures with ``addr`` and ``size``.
```

       The API now uses relative addressing (0-based offsets within the partition).
     * The :c:func:`bm_storage_write` and :c:func:`bm_storage_erase` functions to return ``-ENOMEM`` when out of memory, instead of ``-EIO``.
     * The :c:func:`bm_storage_read`, :c:func:`bm_storage_write`, and :c:func:`bm_storage_erase` functions to return ``-EINVAL`` on alignment errors, instead of ``-EFAULT``.

>      * The :c:enum:`bm_storage_evt_dispatch_type` enum and the :c:member:`bm_storage_evt.dispatch_type` field have been replaced by a boolean :c:member:`bm_storage_evt.is_async`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     * By replacing the :c:enum:`bm_storage_evt_dispatch_type` enum and the :c:member:`bm_storage_evt.dispatch_type` field with a boolean :c:member:`bm_storage_evt.is_async`.
```

     * The :c:func:`ble_adv_stop` function to stop advertising.

   * Updated:

     * The :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BLE_ADV_EXTENDED_ADVERTISING` Kconfig option to be disabled by default and dependent on the new :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_SOFTDEVICE_EXTENDED_ADVERTISING` Kconfig option.
     * The :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BLE_ADV_DIRECTED_ADVERTISING` Kconfig option to be disabled by default.

   * Fixed:

     * An issue causing fast advertising with allow list to incorrectly send event :c:enumerator:`BLE_ADV_EVT_FAST` when it should have sent event :c:enumerator:`BLE_ADV_EVT_FAST_ALLOW_LIST`.
     * An issue causing slow advertising with allow list to incorrectly send event :c:enumerator:`BLE_ADV_EVT_SLOW` when it should have sent event :c:enumerator:`BLE_ADV_EVT_SLOW_ALLOW_LIST`.
     * An issue in the data module where the short name would not be matched in certain cases.

   * Removed:

     * The ``CONFIG_BLE_ADV_NAME`` Kconfig option.
       Instead, the application must set the device name by calling the :c:func:`sd_ble_gap_device_name_set` function.

* :ref:`lib_ble_db_discovery` library:

   * Updated:

>      * The library is now supported.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     * The maturity status of the library to Supported.
```

     * The ``params`` union field of the :c:struct:`ble_db_discovery_evt` structure to an anonymous union.
     * The :c:enumerator:`BLE_DB_DISCOVERY_COMPLETE` event to pass the service discovery result by-reference instead of by-value.
       This removes one copy operation for each :c:enumerator:`BLE_DB_DISCOVERY_COMPLETE` event and significantly reduces the size of both :c:struct:`ble_db_discovery_evt` and :c:struct:`ble_db_discovery` structures.

   * Fixed:

     * An issue where starting a second round of discovery, after either a disconnect or a completed discovery, could result in incorrect internal state.
       This could eventually lead to insufficient memory for discovering new services.

   * Removed:

     * The ``ble_db_discovery_user_evt`` structure after a rework.

* :ref:`lib_ble_scan` library:

   * Added the :c:struct:`ble_scan_filter_data` structure as input to the :c:func:`ble_scan_filter_add` function.

   * Updated:

>      * The library is now supported.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     * The maturity status of the library to Supported.
```

     * The functions to use the ``uint32_t`` type instead of ``int`` when returning nrf_errors.
     * The ``params`` union field of the :c:struct:`ble_scan_evt` structure to an anonymous union.

>      * The ``allow_list_used`` function was renamed to :c:func:`ble_scan_is_allow_list_used`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     * By renaming the ``allow_list_used`` function to :c:func:`ble_scan_is_allow_list_used`.
```

     * The name of the :c:type:`ble_gap_evt_adv_report_t` fields in the :c:struct:`ble_scan_evt` struct to ``adv_report``.

   * Fixed an issue with active scanning where the multifilter match was used.
     A match would not be triggered unless the data for all types of enabled filters were provided in either the advertising or scan response data.

>      Now the data can be provided in a mix of the advertising and scan response data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     Now, the data can be provided in a mix of the advertising and scan response data.
```

> * Bluetooth LE Connection state library:

Reviewer: Link? Although it is deprecated, it should be still shown, right?

Author: we only have API doc for this one so linking there

   * Deprecated the library.
     Applications and other libraries and services should keep an internal state of required connections instead.

Bluetooth LE Services
---------------------

* Added:

  * The :ref:`lib_ble_service_bas_client` service.
  * The :c:member:`ble_cgms_config.initial_comm_interval` to the :c:struct:`ble_cgms_config` structure to set the initial communication interval.

* Updated:

>   * Renamed the Bluetooth: Heart Rate Service Central (``ble_hrs_central``) to the :ref:`lib_ble_service_hrs_client` sample.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * By renaming the Bluetooth: Heart Rate Service Central (``ble_hrs_central``) to :ref:`lib_ble_service_hrs_client` sample.
```

        Furthermore, the function will now only update the battery level characteristic value if the value changes.
      * The :c:func:`ble_bas_battery_level_update` function to return :c:macro:`NRF_ERROR_INVALID_PARAM` if the battery level value is outside of the valid range of ``0`` to ``100``.
      * The :c:func:`ble_bas_battery_level_update` function with support for notifying the current battery level instead of providing a new battery level value and then notifying.
        This is done by setting the battery level parameter of the :c:func:`ble_bas_battery_level_update` to the value of :c:macro:`BLE_BAS_BATTERY_LEVEL_LAST`.

   * Removed the ``ble_bas_battery_level_notify`` function in favor of the :c:func:`ble_bas_battery_level_update` function.

* :ref:`lib_ble_service_hrs`:

   * Updated:

      * The :c:func:`ble_hrs_heart_rate_measurement_send` function to not consume RR interval data when notifications are disabled in the CCCD and notification of the HRM data would fail.
      * The :c:func:`ble_hrs_heart_rate_measurement_send` function to log the heart rate value on the debug log level.

>         Previously this value was logged on the info log level which caused excessive logging when periodically sending heart rate measurements.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        Previously, this value was logged on the info log level, which caused excessive logging when periodically sending heart rate measurements.
```

* :ref:`lib_ble_service_hrs_client` service:

   * Added:

      * The :c:func:`ble_hrs_client_hrm_notif_disable` function to disable Heart Rate Measurement notifications.
      * Validation of the :c:member:`ble_hrs_client_config.evt_handler` and :c:member:`ble_hrs_client_config.gatt_queue` configuration fields in :c:func:`ble_hrs_client_init`.

>       * State validation in :c:func:`ble_hrs_client_hrm_notif_enable` and :c:func:`ble_hrs_client_hrm_notif_disable`, returning :c:macro:`NRF_ERROR_INVALID_STATE` when the connection or CCCD handle has not been assigned.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      * State validation in the :c:func:`ble_hrs_client_hrm_notif_enable` and :c:func:`ble_hrs_client_hrm_notif_disable` functions, returning :c:macro:`NRF_ERROR_INVALID_STATE` when the connection or CCCD handle has not been assigned.
```

   * Updated:

      * The :c:struct:`ble_hrs_client_evt` structure was aligned with other client services.
      * The ``hrs_db`` structure was renamed to :c:struct:`ble_hrs_handles`.

>       * The ``ble_hrm`` structure was renamed to :c:struct:`ble_hrs_measurement`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      * By aligning the :c:struct:`ble_hrs_client_evt` structure with other client services.
      * By renaming the ``hrs_db`` structure to :c:struct:`ble_hrs_handles`.
      * By renaming the ``ble_hrm`` structure to :c:struct:`ble_hrs_measurement`.
```

      * The ``params`` union field of the :c:struct:`ble_hrs_client_evt` structure to an anonymous union.

   * Fixed a potential buffer over-read when parsing malformed Heart Rate Measurement notifications.

* :ref:`lib_ble_service_nus`:

>    * Removed the ``ble_nus_client_context`` structure and the ``link_ctx`` field from :c:struct:`ble_nus_evt` structure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   * Removed the ``ble_nus_client_context`` structure and the ``link_ctx`` field from the :c:struct:`ble_nus_evt` structure.
```

     The service now reads the CCCD directly from the SoftDevice instead of caching notification state internally.

* :ref:`lib_ble_service_nus_client` service:

   * Added the Nordic UART Service (NUS) client.

* :ref:`lib_ble_service_hids` service:

   * Updated the ``params`` union field of the :c:struct:`ble_hids_evt` structure to an anonymous union.

* :ref:`lib_ble_service_bms` service:

   * Updated the security configuration of the :c:struct:`ble_bms_config` structure to align with other services.

>      Added the :c:macro:`BLE_BMS_CONFIG_SEC_MODE_DEFAULT` macro to set the default security configuration.

Reviewer: Should this be a separate "Added" item, or is it related to the structure update?

Reviewer: This is still pending.

Reviewer 2: It is related to the structure update.

Libraries for NFC
-----------------

* Added:

  * The NFC libraries for NFC Connection Handover and Bluetooth LE Out-of-Band (OOB) pairing.
  * The workaround to ensure the ``FRAMEDELAYMAX`` register is set to the default value when a field is lost.
    This avoids violating protocol timing, which can lead readers to reject the NFC tag's response.

* Updated:

  * The maturity status of NFC libraries from Experimental to Supported for the nRF54L05, nRF54L10, and nRF54L15 SoCs.
    The nRF54LM20A SoC is still in Experimental quality.
  * The NFC subsystem code by migrating it to |BMshort|.
    It does not reuse code from |NCS| anymore.

>     The NFC related Kconfig options provided by |BMshort| have the ``BM_NFC_`` prefix.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    The NFC-related Kconfig options provided by |BMshort| have the ``BM_NFC_`` prefix.
```

   * Removed the ``gap_conn_sec_mode_from_u8`` function from the :file:`ble_common.h` file.
     Use the :c:macro:`BLE_GAP_CONN_SEC_MODE_OPEN` and similar macros instead.
   * Updated the return value of the :c:func:`is_notification_enabled` and :c:func:`is_indication_enabled` functions to ``bool`` to reflect that it returns a boolean value and not an ``uint16_t``.

Samples
=======

* Updated the prefix for sample Kconfig options from ``APP`` to ``SAMPLE``.

* Removed the battery measurement simulation from the following samples:

   * :ref:`ble_cgms_sample`
   * :ref:`ble_hids_mouse_sample`
   * :ref:`ble_hids_keyboard_sample`

* Aligned LED and button behavior across samples.

* All samples that are compatible with the new board targets PCA10188 (`nRF54LV10 DK`_), PCA10184 (`nRF54LM20 DK`_), and PCA10214 (`nRF54LS05 DK`_) have been updated to reflect support for these boards.

Bluetooth LE samples
--------------------

* Added:

   * The :ref:`ble_nus_central_sample` sample.
   * The :ref:`peripheral_nfc_pairing_sample` sample.

* :ref:`ble_bms_sample` sample:

>    * Added sample-specific Kconfig options for the BMS authorization code by moving them from the service library scope and renaming them from ``CONFIG_BLE_BMS_AUTHORIZATION_CODE`` and ``CONFIG_BLE_BMS_USE_AUTHORIZATION_CODE`` to :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_APP_BLE_BMS_AUTHORIZATION_CODE` and :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_APP_BLE_BMS_USE_AUTHORIZATION_CODE`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   * Added sample-specific Kconfig options for the BMS authorization code by moving them from the service library scope and renaming them from ``CONFIG_BLE_BMS_AUTHORIZATION_CODE`` and ``CONFIG_BLE_BMS_USE_AUTHORIZATION_CODE`` to :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_SAMPLE_BLE_BMS_AUTHORIZATION_CODE` and :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_SAMPLE_BLE_BMS_USE_AUTHORIZATION_CODE`.
```

* :ref:`ble_hids_keyboard_sample`:

   * Added support for boot mode.

* :ref:`ble_hids_mouse_sample` sample:

   * Fixed an issue where the sample did not enter or exit boot mode properly based on the HID events.

* :ref:`ble_hrs_central_sample` sample:

   * Added the :ref:`lib_ble_service_bas_client` service to the sample.

* :ref:`ble_nus_sample` sample:

   * Updated to align with changes to the :ref:`driver_lpuarte` driver.

* :ref:`ble_pwr_profiling_sample` sample:

   * Updated to use a dedicated variable to hold the service attribute handle instead of incorrectly using the connection handle variable for this during service initialization.

NFC samples
-----------

> * Included nRF54LM20A as available SoC for the :ref:`peripheral_nfc_pairing_sample`, :ref:`record_text_t4t_sample` and :ref:`record_text_t2t_sample` samples, but the NFC libraries for this SoC are still in Experimental quality.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Included nRF54LM20A as an available SoC for the :ref:`peripheral_nfc_pairing_sample`, :ref:`record_text_t4t_sample` and :ref:`record_text_t2t_sample` samples, but the NFC libraries for this SoC are still in Experimental quality.
```

* Updated to use ``CONFIG_BM_NFC_*`` Kconfig options provided by |BMshort| instead of ``CONFIG_NFC_*`` options provided by |NCS|.
  Use ``#include <bm/nfc/...>`` headers provided by |BMshort| instead of ``#include <nfc/...>`` headers from |NCS|.

Peripheral samples
------------------

* Added the :ref:`bm_ppi_sample` sample.

* :ref:`bm_lpuarte_sample` sample:

  * Updated to align with changes to the :ref:`driver_lpuarte` driver.

* :ref:`uarte_sample` sample:

   * Updated the sample to use the logging module instead of console.

DFU samples
-----------

* Updated:

   * The :ref:`ble_mcuboot_recovery_entry_sample` can be built with size-optimized configuration of MCUboot and firmware loader.
     To enable the size-optimized configuration, set :makevar:`FILE_SUFFIX` to ``size_opt`` when building the sample.
   * The :ref:`ble_mcuboot_recovery_entry_sample` migrates to new solution for setting up the DFU Device Bluetooth name remotely.
     See the :ref:`ug_dfu` page for details.
   * The :ref:`ble_mcuboot_recovery_entry_sample` to clear the retained DFU Device Bluetooth name on boot.

>      This was previously done by the firmware loader.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* :ref:`ble_mcuboot_recovery_entry_sample` sample:

  * Updated:

    * By enabling building size-optimized configuration of MCUboot and firmware loader.
      To enable the size-optimized configuration, set :makevar:`FILE_SUFFIX` to ``size_opt`` when building the sample.
    * By enabling migration to new solution for setting up the DFU Device Bluetooth name remotely.
      See the :ref:`ug_dfu` page for details.
    * To clear the retained DFU Device Bluetooth name on boot.
      This was previously done by the firmware loader.
```

.. _nrf_bm_release_notes_200:

Release Notes for |BMlong| v2.0.0
#################################

|BMshort| v2.0.0 is a major release that expands hardware support, adds maturity to key features, and introduces several new libraries, services, and samples.
This release is based on |NCS| v3.3.0.

Highlights
**********

* Added support for three new SoCs with their dedicated development kits: the `nRF54LM20A`_ (`nRF54LM20 DK`_), `nRF54LS05B`_ (`nRF54LS05 DK`_), and `nRF54LV10A`_ (`nRF54LV10 DK`_).
* Updated the SoftDevice to v10.0.0, a new major version that targets both the existing and newly added devices.
  See the :ref:`SoftDevice release notes <softdevice_docs>` for details.
* Expanded the Bluetooth® LE Central role support through additional libraries and samples, including the :ref:`lib_ble_service_bas_client` and :ref:`lib_ble_service_nus_client` services, and the :ref:`ble_nus_central_sample` sample.
* Updated the Bluetooth LE Central role to fully supported for the nRF54L15, nRF54L10, nRF54L05, and the newly added nRF54LM20A SoCs.

> * Improved the quality and maintainability through corrections and hardening across Bluetooth LE libraries, drivers, DFU, NFC integration, and documentation, including clearer SoftDevice documentation per SoC variant where applicable.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Improved the quality and maintainability through corrections and hardening across Bluetooth LE libraries, drivers, DFU, NFC integration, and documentation, including clearer SoftDevice documentation per SoC variant where applicable.
* Core libraries for Bluetooth® LE Central role applications, :ref:`lib_ble_scan` and :ref:`lib_ble_db_discovery`, are now supported.
```

   * The board memory layout for all boards to align with the new SoftDevice.
   * The LPUARTE pins in the :file:`board-config.h` file for ``bm_nrf54l15dk`` to avoid conflicts for LEDs, buttons, and other peripherals where possible.
   * The board RAM memory layout for all boards to use a single node for SoftDevice RAM, combining the previously separate static and dynamic nodes.

* Disabled all Peripheral Resource Sharing (PRS) boxes for the ``bm_nrf54l15dk`` board variants.

Build system
============

* Updated the Kconfig dependencies, including those for drivers, libraries, and Bluetooth LE services.

DFU
===

* Added:

   * Experimental support for the nRF54LV10A, nRF54LM20A, and nRF54LS05B SoCs.
   * The :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BM_MCUMGR_GRP_IMG_BUFFER_SZ` Kconfig option to set the size of the data buffer.
   * The :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BM_MCUMGR_GRP_IMG_NVM_WRITE_BLOCKS_MAX` Kconfig option to set the maximum number of non-volatile memory wear units written to NVM at once.

* Updated:

   * The maturity status of DFU for the nRF54L15, nRF54L10, and nRF54L05 SoCs from Experimental to Supported.
   * Image upload NVM writes to be handled in synchronization with SD.

>    * The download speed performance over Bluetooth LE by improving it.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```
Maybe this line should be removed. Can we say this with confidence?

Reviewer 2: I agree that it can be removed.

     * The :c:func:`bm_storage_read`, :c:func:`bm_storage_write`, and :c:func:`bm_storage_erase` functions to return ``-EINVAL`` on alignment errors, instead of ``-EFAULT``.
     * The :c:enum:`bm_storage_evt_dispatch_type` enum and the :c:member:`bm_storage_evt.dispatch_type` field by replacing them with a boolean :c:member:`bm_storage_evt.is_async`.
     * All backends to use the new :c:func:`bm_storage_evt_dispatch` function for event delivery.
       For backends without an internal operation queue (such as RRAM), enabling :c:func:`bm_scheduler` defers synchronous events to the main thread context.
     * The SoftDevice backend to process operations iteratively instead of recursively when the SoftDevice is disabled.
       Re-entrant calls from event handlers are safely enqueued and processed by the loop.

* ``bm_rmem`` library:

   * Added the new inter-application RAM clipboard storage.
     It is a simple SRAM-based storage mechanism designed to provide data clipboards between applications.
     It can be enabled by the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BM_RMEM` Kconfig option.

Filesystem
----------

> * :ref:`lib_bm_zms`
> 
>    * Added the :c:member:`bm_zms_fs_config.storage_api` field to select the storage backend API.

Reviewer 3: Please add an entry here for the fix in https://github.com/nrfconnect/sdk-nrf-bm/pull/778. We deferred the changelog entry to this PR. Feel free to do changes as you see fit.
```suggestion
* :ref:`lib_bm_zms`

   * Added the :c:member:`bm_zms_fs_config.storage_api` field to select the storage backend API.
   * Fixed a bug where a read immediately following a write could start searching for data using an invalid address if the write triggered a sector close.
     A backup read address is now stored before closing a sector to ensure that reads start from a valid address.
```

* Updated the SoftDevice to **v10.0.0**, a new major version that targets both the existing and newly added devices.
  See the :ref:`SoftDevice release notes <softdevice_docs>` for details.
* Expanded the Bluetooth® LE Central role support through additional libraries and samples, including the :ref:`lib_ble_service_bas_client` and :ref:`lib_ble_service_nus_client` services, and the :ref:`ble_nus_central_sample` sample.
* Updated the Bluetooth LE Central role to fully supported for the nRF54L15, nRF54L10, nRF54L05, and the newly added nRF54LM20A SoCs.
* Improved the quality and maintainability through corrections and hardening across Bluetooth LE libraries, drivers, DFU, NFC integration, and documentation, including clearer SoftDevice documentation per SoC variant where applicable.

Supported hardware
******************

|BMshort| v2.0.0 provides a set of samples for the following development kits of the nRF54L Series:

* `nRF54L15 DK`_ - with build targets supporting three SoCs: `nRF54L15`_, `nRF54L10`_, and `nRF54L05`_.
* `nRF54LM20 DK`_, supporting the `nRF54LM20A`_ SoC.
* `nRF54LS05 DK`_, supporting the `nRF54LS05B`_ SoC.
* `nRF54LV10 DK`_, supporting the `nRF54LV10A`_ SoC.

> The supported DK version for the nRF54L15 DK is `nRF54L15 DK v1.0.0`_.

Reviewer 4: Should we have reference to DK version for L15 without stating anything for the LV10, LM20, and LS05 DK ?
I suggest we remove this line

Author: yes, I wasn't sure either, will remove
